---
title: "Install and use WireGuard as a tunnel server"
description: "A how-to guide on installing and configuring WireGuard as a tunnel server."
published: "1722428008091"
heroImage: "/2024/07/31/wireguard.webp"
---

*To avoid wasting your time, if you are simply wanting to install WireGuard and use it as a VPN, only follow step 1, the rest of the steps will not apply to you. The rest of the tutorial is for advanced users who want to setup tunnels which forward everything to the client such as ports.*

## 1. Installing WireGuard
To install WireGuard we are going to use an installation script as this makes the process much faster and easier.

Run the following commands on your host VPS/machine:
```
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/angristan/wireguard-install/master/wireguard-install.sh
chmod +x wireguard-install.sh
./wireguard-install.sh
```

Leave all of the settings as default and let it install. Once you reach the client configuration step, enter whatever name you would like, for example `TUNNEL-CLIENT`, then leave the IP addresses as default then press enter.

If you are simply setting up a VPN you can scan the QR code or copy the details in the file generated by the script and use that on your client machine to connect to your VPN, then you're done!

If you are wanting to setup a tunnel, continue reading.

## 2. Modifying `/etc/sysctl.conf`
Open the `/etc/sysctl.conf` file in your preferred editor (such as nano or vim), then go to the bottom and add the following lines:

```
net.ipv4.conf.all.proxy_arp=1
net.ipv4.ip_forward=1
```

Save and close the file, then run the following command:

```
sysctl -a
```

Finally reboot:

```
reboot
```

## 3. Server configuration
Once the server has rebooted, open up the `/etc/wireguard/wg0.conf` file.

You are going to replace the default client local IP address (usually something like `10.66.66.x`, under the `AllowedIPs` option) with the public IP address you want to assign the client. **This IP address must not be the same as the tunnel server's IP address.**

Then reboot the server once again by running the `reboot` command.

## 4. Client configuration
Finally, edit the client configuration file generated by the installation script and replace the local IP address with the public IP address you placed in the server configuration.

Finally, add the tunnel configuration to your server or computer and your new tunnel should start working immediately.

## Optional: Configuring WireGuard client on a server
1. Install the required packages

```
apt install -y resolvconf wireguard
```

2. Enable WireGuard to start at boot

```
systemctl enable wireguard
```

3. Create a blank file in the `/etc/wireguard` directory called `wg0.conf` and paste the content of your client configuration file from earlier in there.

4. Restart the new `wg0` interface

```
systemctl restart wg-quick@wg0
```

5. You're done!
